[MUSIC]
In this video we will see two
approaches to statistics,
the Frequentist one and the Bayesian one.
So they differ in a lot of aspects.
And the most important one is
that the Frequentists treat
the objective and
Bayesians treat it as subjective.
Let me explain it to you.
Imagine you have a coin and you toss it.
What Frequentist would say that with
probability one half it will end
heads up and with probability
one half it will end tails up.
And you can do nothing about it.
However, what Bayesian would say is that
if someone knew the initial velocity and
all the initial parameters
of the coin toss,
you would be able to predict
the outcome of an experiment.
And for this person the experiment
would not be random.
Another difference
between Frequentists and
Bayesians is how they treat
parameters in the data.
Frequentists would say that parameters
are fixed and data is random.
And they would want to
find this optimal point.
However, Bayesians would
say in a opposite way,
that parameters are random and
the data is fixed.
And this actually makes sense.
When you train your model,
you already know the data and
it is not random anymore.
However, there may be
multiple good points and
you would like to define
a probability distribution over them.
Also Bayesian methods work for
arbitrary number of letter points.
While the Frequentist ones work only
when the number of data points is much
bigger than the number of parameters.
You may say that this is not
a problem when we have the big data.
However, you may remember that for neural
network we have millions of parameters.
However, the number of data
points is only thousands.
Another difference is how Frequentists and
Bayesians train their models.
The Frequentists train using
Maximum Likelihood Principle,
that is they try to find the parameters
theta that maximize the likelihood,
the probability of their
data given parameters.
However, what Bayesians will try to do is
they would try to compute the posterior,
the probability of
the parameters given the data.
And they would try to do this
using the Bayes formula.
And this will give us a lot
of interesting aspects.
It will compute the posterior
distribution, in this case for
the classification, that is
the probability of parameters given
the training data set, the x train and
y train using the Bayes formula.
We can compute the prediction,
the probability of the new point y
test given the training data set.
This can be done using
marginalization principle.
This will be the integral
of the y given X test and
theta times the probability of
theta given the training set.
And we'll have estimated it
using the training procedure.
This formula can also
lead to regularization.
We can treat the prior on
theta as a regularizer.
Imagine if you want to estimate
the probability that your coin will land
heads up.
You already know that most of the coins
land heads up with probability 0.5 and so
you can use the following prior, because
we'll say that most of the coins are fair.
However, if you know that for
your experiment the probability
of heads can either be fair,
that is 0.5 or bias towards heads,
that is greater than 0.5, you could
use for example the following prior.
Also Bayesian methods are really good for
online learning.
Imagine that you have data that
comes in with some small portions.
Then what you could do, you could
use it to update your parameters and
then use the new posterior as
a prior to the next experiment.
Let's see it closer.
The new posterior,
the probability of theta indexed by k,
equals to the posterior that we
get after observing data point xk.
If we apply the base formula
we will see that as a prior we
can use probability of
theta indexed by k-1.
Let's see how it works on an example.
Imagine you want to estimate
some parameter theta.
And here's your prior.
Then you get for example ten points and
you update it using the base formula.
And here's what you get.
The variance of
the distribution is much less.
And also you see that
the mean has changed.
And as you get more and more points, for
example, here you can see for 20 points,
and 30 points, your estimation
becomes more and more precise.
And so you can predict the true
value of the parameters very well.
And now we've seen that there are a lot
of advantages of Bayesian analysis over
frequency swamps, and we'll learn about
them more throughout this course.
[MUSIC]